README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/pydio/cells/wiki/images/PydioCellsColor.png" width="400" />

[Homepage](https://pydio.com/) | [Dev Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/developer-guide) | [GitHub-Repository](https://github.com/pydio/cells) |
[Issue-Tracker](https://github.com/pydio/cells/issues)

[![License Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%203%2B-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/pydio/cells?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/pydio/cells)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/pydio/cells?rand=4)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/pydio/cells)

Pydio Cells is the nextgen file sharing platform for organizations. It is a full rewrite of the Pydio project using the Go language following a micro-service architecture.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydio/cells-dist/master/resources/v3.0.0/home.png" width="600" style="border: 3px solid #e0e0e0; border-radius: 5px;"/>
</p>

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for **development** and testing purposes. See the [Deployment section below](#deployment) for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### A - Prerequisites

The following elements are required to compile and run Pydio Cells on your machine:

- Go language v1.16 or higher and a [correctly configured](https://golang.org/doc/install#testing) Go toolchain,
- MySQL database 5.6 or higher (or MariaDB equivalent). The new MySQL 8 authentication method is supported starting at Cells 1.4.1.

_Note: We have developed and tested Pydio Cells on macOS, Ubuntu, Debian and CentOS. Windows version might still have unknown glitches and is not yet supported._

### B - Build From Sources

Assuming that your system meets the above prerequisites, building the **Pydio Cells** backend from the source code is quite straightforward:

```sh
# Retrieve the code
git clone https://github.com/pydio/cells
# Enter cells directory
cd cells
# Build your binary
make dev
```

### C - Configure Environment

To have the environment running, you must also:

- Create a database in your chosen DB server,
- Run the Pydio Cells installer that will guide you through the necessary steps: you might refer to the [official documentation](https://pydio.com/en/docs/cells/v2/cells-installation) for additional information.


```sh
./cells configure
```

### D - Start Server

```sh
./cells start
```
Access the default site https://localhost:8080/ and you are good to go. Learn more about Cells features 
and advanced configuration in the [Documentation](https://pydio.com/en/docs).

## Running the tests

To run the tests, simply do

```sh
go test -v ./...
```

Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) document if you wish to add more tests or contribute to the code.

## Pre-built Binaries

Binaries are currently provided for [Linux, macOS and Windows distributions](https://pydio.com/en/download). To deploy them on a live system, please see the [Installation Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/cells/v2/cells-installation) instructions.

## Built With

Pydio Cells uses many open-source Golang libraries. The most important ones are listed below, please see [DEPENDENCIES](DEPENDENCIES) for an exhaustive list of other libs and their licenses.

- [Minio](https://github.com/minio/minio) - Objects server implementing s3 protocol

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us. You can find a comprehensive [Developer Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/developer-guide) on our website. Our online docs are open-source as well, feel free to improve them by contributing!

We are also looking for help to translate the Cells interface in various languages.
It is really easy to participate: just navigate to [our page in the Crowdin translation tool](https://crowdin.com/project/pydio-cells), create an account and get started.

## Versioning & Branches

Please note that git main branch moved from `master` for Cells v1 to v3 (vendoring, no modules) to `main` for Cells v4 (go modules).

We use [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/). For all available versions, see the [release list](https://github.com/pydio/cells/releases).

## Authors

See the list of [contributors](https://github.com/pydio/cells/graphs/contributors) who participated in this project. Pydio Cells is also a continuation of the Pydio project and many contributions were ported from [pydio-core](https://github.com/pydio/pydio-core) to the code that can be found under `frontend/front-srv/assets`.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPLv3 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

Commit message:

Add notice about main branch in README

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/pydio/cells/wiki/images/PydioCellsColor.png" width="400" />

[Homepage](https://pydio.com/) | [Dev Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/developer-guide) | [GitHub-Repository](https://github.com/pydio/cells) |
[Issue-Tracker](https://github.com/pydio/cells/issues)

[![License Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%203%2B-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/pydio/cells?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/pydio/cells)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/pydio/cells?rand=4)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/pydio/cells)

> **IMPORTANT NEWS - March 2022: the main git branch switched from `master` to `main`!**
> 
> A milestone on the road to Cells v4: we have fully rewritten the codebase to **support gomodules** at last.
> It is not 100% stable yet, so make sure to use official binaries or the `v3` branch if you need production ready version.


Pydio Cells is the nextgen file sharing platform for organizations. It is a full rewrite of the Pydio project using the Go language following a micro-service architecture.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydio/cells-dist/master/resources/v3.0.0/home.png" width="600" style="border: 3px solid #e0e0e0; border-radius: 5px;"/>
</p>

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for **development** and testing purposes. See the [Deployment section below](#deployment) for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### A - Prerequisites

The following elements are required to compile and run Pydio Cells on your machine:

- Go language v1.16 or higher and a [correctly configured](https://golang.org/doc/install#testing) Go toolchain,
- MySQL database 5.6 or higher (or MariaDB equivalent). The new MySQL 8 authentication method is supported starting at Cells 1.4.1.

_Note: We have developed and tested Pydio Cells on macOS, Ubuntu, Debian and CentOS. Windows version might still have unknown glitches and is not yet supported._

### B - Build From Sources

Assuming that your system meets the above prerequisites, building the **Pydio Cells** backend from the source code is quite straightforward:

```sh
# Retrieve the code
git clone https://github.com/pydio/cells
# Enter cells directory
cd cells
# Build your binary
make dev
```

### C - Configure Environment

To have the environment running, you must also:

- Create a database in your chosen DB server,
- Run the Pydio Cells installer that will guide you through the necessary steps: you might refer to the [official documentation](https://pydio.com/en/docs/cells/v2/cells-installation) for additional information.


```sh
./cells configure
```

### D - Start Server

```sh
./cells start
```
Access the default site https://localhost:8080/ and you are good to go. Learn more about Cells features 
and advanced configuration in the [Documentation](https://pydio.com/en/docs).

## Running the tests

To run the tests, simply do

```sh
go test -v ./...
```

Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) document if you wish to add more tests or contribute to the code.

## Pre-built Binaries

Binaries are currently provided for [Linux, macOS and Windows distributions](https://pydio.com/en/download). To deploy them on a live system, please see the [Installation Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/cells/v2/cells-installation) instructions.

## Built With

Pydio Cells uses many open-source Golang libraries. The most important ones are listed below, please see [DEPENDENCIES](DEPENDENCIES) for an exhaustive list of other libs and their licenses.

- [Minio](https://github.com/minio/minio) - Objects server implementing s3 protocol

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us. You can find a comprehensive [Developer Guide](https://pydio.com/en/docs/developer-guide) on our website. Our online docs are open-source as well, feel free to improve them by contributing!

We are also looking for help to translate the Cells interface in various languages.
It is really easy to participate: just navigate to [our page in the Crowdin translation tool](https://crowdin.com/project/pydio-cells), create an account and get started.

## Versioning & Branches

Please note that git main branch moved from `master` for Cells v1 to v3 (vendoring, no modules) to `main` for Cells v4 (go modules).

We use [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/). For all available versions, see the [release list](https://github.com/pydio/cells/releases).

## Authors

See the list of [contributors](https://github.com/pydio/cells/graphs/contributors) who participated in this project. Pydio Cells is also a continuation of the Pydio project and many contributions were ported from [pydio-core](https://github.com/pydio/pydio-core) to the code that can be found under `frontend/front-srv/assets`.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPLv3 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
