tools/docker/compose/ha/README.md, before:

# HA setup

Simple docker-compose deployment to experiment with Cells v4 Clustering model.
It uses `pydio/cells:unstable` docker image, use whatever image by editing the docker-compose.yml file.

## Preparing dependencies

HA deployments relies on external dependencies to make Cells image fully stateless. 
This sample creates the following images : MySQL, MongoDB, NATS.io, ETCD, Hashicorp Vault and Redis.

This Vault requires a manual preparation for a specific key/value store (see below)

```sh
cd <this folder>
# start all third-party services
docker-compose up -d mysql mongo nats etcd vault redis

# First connect to vault to create a dedicated kvstore for certificates
# Vault is configured in DEV mode with a preset VAULT_TOKEN. This should of course not be the case in production
docker-compose exec vault /bin/sh 
# Inside vault container:
> VAULT_ADDR=http://localhost:8200 VAULT_TOKEN=dev_root_token vault secrets enable -version=2 -path=caddycerts kv
```

## Starting Cells Nodes

```sh
# Start one node, then open https://localhost:8080 to perform the install
docker-compose up -d cells1; docker-compose logs -f cells1
```
Perform web browser installation: 

- For DB use host 'mysql', pydio:cells as credentials and 'cells' database name
- For Mongo use host 'mongo', default port and no credentials, 'cells' database name.

Now you can spin more cells nodes:

```sh
# Once install is finished, start other nodes 
docker-compose up -d cells2 cells3; docker-compose logs -f cells2 cells3
```

## Caddy LoadBalancer

Finally start Caddy load balancer in self-signed mode. 

This requires adding localhost => caddy domain name to your local /etc/hosts file.
Once started, it will monitor cells instances on /pprofs endpoint to automatically enable/disable upstreams.

```sh
# Start Caddy 
docker-compose up -d caddy
```

Now access https://caddy:8585/ to access Cells. Enjoy !

## Stopping cluster

```sh
# To clean everything
docker-compose down -v --remove-orphan
```

Commit message:

Update docker-compose with a dedicated minio node

tools/docker/compose/ha/README.md, after:

# HA setup

Simple docker-compose deployment to experiment with Cells v4 Clustering model.
It uses `pydio/cells:unstable` docker image, use whatever image by editing the docker-compose.yml file.

## Preparing dependencies

HA deployments relies on external dependencies to make Cells image fully stateless. 
This sample creates the following images : MySQL, MongoDB, NATS.io, ETCD, Hashicorp Vault and Redis.

This Vault requires a manual preparation for a specific key/value store (see below)

```sh
cd <this folder>
# start all third-party services
docker-compose up -d mysql mongo nats etcd vault redis minio

# First connect to vault to create a dedicated kvstore for certificates
# Vault is configured in DEV mode with a preset VAULT_TOKEN. This should of course not be the case in production
docker-compose exec vault /bin/sh 
# Inside vault container:
> VAULT_ADDR=http://localhost:8200 VAULT_TOKEN=dev_root_token vault secrets enable -version=2 -path=caddycerts kv
```

## Starting Cells Nodes

```sh
# Start one node, then open https://localhost:8080 to perform the install
docker-compose up -d cells1; docker-compose logs -f cells1
```
Perform web browser installation: 

- For DB use host 'mysql', pydio:cells as credentials and 'cells' database name
- For Mongo use host 'mongo', default port and no credentials, 'cells' database name.
- Use Advanced Options and connect to Minio as "S3-Compatible" storage, using 'minio' host and minioadmin for key and secret

Now you can spin more cells nodes:

```sh
# Once install is finished, start other nodes 
docker-compose up -d cells2 cells3; docker-compose logs -f cells2 cells3
```

## Caddy LoadBalancer

Finally start Caddy load balancer in self-signed mode. 

This requires adding localhost => caddy domain name to your local /etc/hosts file.
Once started, it will monitor cells instances on /pprofs endpoint to automatically enable/disable upstreams.

```sh
# Start Caddy 
docker-compose up -d caddy
```

Now access https://caddy:8585/ to access Cells. Enjoy !

## Stopping cluster

```sh
# To clean everything
docker-compose down -v --remove-orphan
```
